---
layout: post
title:  "How to get the best out of your offshore development partner"
categories: productivity business
description: A guide to get the best out of your consulting team in india
keywords: Best Development Partner
comments: true
---
# Get the best out of your offshore development partner

Clients tend to feel concerned when they are offshoring their development. They
worry if the dev team will align with their thought process. Here are a few
methods to have a very efficient offshoring process.

### Stand up calls

Have Stand up skype calls in the morning. Talk about the progress made the
previous day, and clear doubts if any. Make sure you get a brief about what
your development team is going to be working on today. 

### Project Management Tool

Have a project management tool like Pivotal Tracker, where you ***write*** down
all your user stories. Having your user stories written down in one place is
very critical. This is the one sacrosanct document. Everyone refers to this
and basis their work on what is written here. 

Tip: Add your attachments to your user stories. If you want your banner
changed. Add the new banner here. If there are a lot of files, share the link
to the Dropbox folder here.

### Give Feedback

The ***Agile*** methodology of software development is all about ***Feedback*** .
As the project flows, you tend to communicate your concerns and modify/add
requirements during the Stand up calls. Make sure that you add the changes to
the project management tool. Remember that is the sacrosacnt document. I would
encourage you to add/clear doubts as comments on the user stories. This
establishes the thought process on that user story throughout the team. This
gives more flexibility to the development team, as no one will miss the context
or progress.

### Know the status of every story

The status of every user story should be available in your project managment
tool. Typically the user stories go through the following phashes

Started -> Finished -> Delivered -> Accepted/Rejected 

If Rejected. The Reason why it has been rejected is commented and the developer
restarts the cycle

### Delivery and Review

The first step in any project is to *GET YOUR STAGING SERVER READY*. This
enables you to visualize the development of your project.

Review daily. Review as soon as your developer delivers a user story. The
quicker you review the user stories, the quicker your project is delivered.

### Stick to your deadlines

Dont you feel great when you know you have completed your work in time and dont
have any work carried over.

Dont miss that deadline. Plan up your project. Get your development team to
give you weekly milestones and make sure they hit it.

Time estimates in software development are never accurate. Finish of the few
hours of work remaining on saturday early morning and enjoy a *GUILT FREE*
weekend.

### Quality

Optimize for quality very early. This establishes your thought process with the
team. If you understand code,review code regularly in the early stages. Give
feedback on the coding style, the way the functions are named, the tabspaces.
Is the code test driven?

### Be available

Your work is not over once you communicate the requirements. Regular touch is
critical. Make sure that you allocate atleast 30 minutes a day to sync with
your dev team.

With all the tools available today offshoring is getting close to zero
compromises. Infact even a company as big as GITHUB works accross different
timezones and has a lot of remote workers
